The persecution spread throughout Malawi
soon after the announcement was made
that the Witnesses were banned in the country.
Their houses were burned,
and their maize crops were confiscated
because they refused to participate
in the country’s politics.
The regular visits that Brother Johansson
was doing as a branch representative at that time
really encouraged the brothers
from various parts of the country
who were affected by the persecution.
His wife, Linda,
suggested that he should ask
someone to accompany him
so that he did not have to do the work alone.
And she suggested that I accompany him.
This was because of the fear
of what might happen.
When we got to the ferry crossing,
the soldiers told Brother Johansson
to get out and stand in front of the jeep.
They said to me, “You can pass,
but we first have to shoot the white man.”
Because the Scriptures say:
“No one has greater love than this,
that someone should surrender
his life in behalf of his friends,”
I said:
“Shoot me instead!
What did this man do?”
Yes, it happened
without me giving it a second thought.
It just happened spontaneously.
I stood between him and the soldiers.
Prayer helped very much
because the people
that we thought were going to harm us
had a complete change of heart.
On the way back,
Brother Johansson also saved my life.
We were stopped by a youth mob at a roadblock.
They asked for the political cards.
They would have killed me.
So Brother Johansson
just sped off with his vehicle.
Yes, it was very exciting to see
that Jehovah God
has many ways of saving his people.
Elisha said:
“For there are more who are with us
than those who are with them.”
In the end, Jehovah will rescue his people.
So in countries where our brothers are banned,
I encourage them to stand firm,
trusting in God
—the God who never fails, Jehovah.